Add Enchantments page (#165)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/resources/server/enchantments/builtin.md

# Built-In Enchantment Effect Components

Vanilla Minecraft provides numerous different types of Enchantment Effect Components for use in [enchantment] definitions. This article will explain each, including their usage and in-code definition.

## Value Effect Components

> [Value Effect Components] are used for enchantments that alter a numerical value somewhere in the game, and are implemented by the class `EnchantmentValueEffect`. 

Reviewer: Consider replacing the inline links with something like this:
```
_See also: [Value Effect Components] on the Minecraft Wiki_
```
Similar for the other links below.

Value Effect Components can be set to use any of these operations on their given values:
- `minecraft:set`: Overwrites the given level-based value.
- `minecraft:add`: Adds the specified level-based value to the old one.
- `minecraft:multiply`: Multiplies the specified level-based factor by the old one.
- `minecraft:remove_binomial`: Polls a given (level-based) chance using a binomial distibution. If it works, subtracts 1 from the value. Note that many values are effectively flags, being fully on at 1 and fully off at 0.
- `minecraft:all_of`: Accepts a list of other value effects and applies them in the stated sequence.

The Sharpness enchantment uses `minecraft:damage`, a Value Effect Component, as follows to achieve its effect:
```json5
"effects": {
    "minecraft:damage": [
      {
        "effect": {
          "type": "minecraft:add",
          "value": {
            "type": "minecraft:linear",
            "base": 1.0,
            "per_level_above_first": 0.5
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
```

> The object within the `value` block is a [LevelBasedValue], which can be used to have a Value Effect Component that changes the intensity of its effect by level.

Author: It mentions them but I'm not sure there's a spot where that article defines them. I guess the bullet list in the Number Provider section? I've put the link to there for now but I'm not sure...

> The object within the `value` block is a [LevelBasedValue], which can be used to have a Value Effect Component that changes the intensity of its effect by level.

Reviewer: Yes, that's the part I meant.

- `minecraft:projectile_piercing`: Modifies the number of entities pierced by a projectile from this weapon. Used by Piercing.
- `minecraft:projectile_count`: Modifies the number of projectiles spawned when shooting this bow. Used by Multishot.
- `minecraft:projectile_spread`: Modifies the maximum spread of projectiles in degrees from the direction they were fired. Used by Multishot.
- `minecraft:trident_return_acceleration`: Causes the trident to return to its owner, and modifies the acceleration applied to this trident while doing so. Used by Loyalty.

Other:
- `minecraft:block_experience`: Modifies the amount of XP from breaking a block. Used by Silk Touch.
- `minecraft:fishing_time_reduction`: Reduces the time it takes for the bobber to sink while fishing with this rod by the given number of seconds. Used by Lure.
- `minecraft:fishing_luck_bonus`: Modifies the amount of [luck] used in the fishing loot table. Used by Luck of the Sea.

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<TargetedConditionalEffect<EnchantmentValueEffect>>>`

> - `minecraft:equipmentment_drops`: Modifies the chance of equipment dropping from an entity killed by this weapon. Used by Looting.

Author: Mine...

- `minecraft:tick`: Runs an entity effect each tick. Used by Soul Speed.
- `minecraft:projectile_spawned`: Runs an entity effect after a projectile entity has been spawned from a bow or crossbow. Used by Flame.

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<TargetedConditionalEffect<EnchantmentEntityEffect>>>`
- `minecraft:post_attack`: Runs an entity effect after an attack damages an entity. Used by Bane of Arthropods, Channeling, Fire Aspect, Thorns, and Wind Burst.

For more detail on each of these, please look at the [relevant minecraft wiki page].

### Attribute Effect Component
The [Attribute Effect Component], `minecraft:attributes`, is a unique Enchantment Entity Effect Component of type `EnchantmentAttributeEffect` that is not registered as a Location Based Effect Component. It is used to apply attribute modifiers to the wielder of the enchantment, which are then removed when the enchanted item is no longer equipped. The JSON format is as follows:
```json5
"minecraft:attributes": [
    {
        "amount": {
            "type": "minecraft:linear",
            "base": 1,
            "per_level_above_first": 1
        },

>         "attribute": "namespace:class.attribute_name",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "attribute": "namespace:attribute_name",
```
The `class.` qualifier adds more confusion imo, Mojang keeping this qualifier is already confusing enough.

# Built-In Enchantment Effect Components

Vanilla Minecraft provides numerous different types of enchantment effect components for use in [enchantment] definitions. This article will explain each, including their usage and in-code definition.

## Value Effect Components

_See also [Value Effect Components] on the Minecraft Wiki_

> Value effect components are used for enchantments that alter a numerical value somewhere in the game, and are implemented by the class `EnchantmentValueEffect`. 

Reviewer 2: I would just specifically state here that multiple enchantments will iterate off the same value when applied.

Value effect components can be set to use any of these operations on their given values:
- `minecraft:set`: Overwrites the given level-based value.
- `minecraft:add`: Adds the specified level-based value to the old one.
- `minecraft:multiply`: Multiplies the specified level-based factor by the old one.
- `minecraft:remove_binomial`: Polls a given (level-based) chance using a binomial distibution. If it works, subtracts 1 from the value. Note that many values are effectively flags, being fully on at 1 and fully off at 0.
- `minecraft:all_of`: Accepts a list of other value effects and applies them in the stated sequence.

The Sharpness enchantment uses `minecraft:damage`, a value effect component, as follows to achieve its effect:

```json5
"effects": {
  "minecraft:damage": [
    {
      "effect": {
        "type": "minecraft:add",
        "value": {
          "type": "minecraft:linear",
          "base": 1.0,
          "per_level_above_first": 0.5
        }
      }
    }
  ]

> }

Reviewer 2: Add comments for each part to give a better idea of what's going on. Also, show a datagen tab version.

Author: This isn't a complete example of a data generated file, so how would I show data generation for it? I could show datagen that makes the entire Sharpness enchantment, but then it would feel out of scope for this section, wouldn't it?

Reviewer 2: You could just have a comment at the top that says something like `// Passed for 'effects' in an Enchantment` and then show the relevant object.

```

The object within the `value` block is a [LevelBasedValue], which can be used to have a value effect component that changes the intensity of its effect by level.

Custom numerical operations for use in value effect component definition blocks can be added by registering a subclass of `EnchantmentValueEffect` through `BuiltInRegistries.ENCHANTMENT_VALUE_EFFECT_TYPE`.

The `EnchantmentValueEffect#process` method can be used to adjust values based on the provided numerical operations, like so:

```java
// `valueEffect` is an EnchantmentValueEffect instance.
// `enchantLevel` is an integer representing the level of the enchantment
float baseValue = 1.0;
float modifiedValue = valueEffect.process(enchantLevel, server.random, baseValue);

> ```

Reviewer 2: Ok. So, builtin components here means only the builtin components. If we're going to talk about implementing your own, it should be in the main file.

This should only reference existing vanilla types to use.

- `minecraft:projectile_count`: Modifies the number of projectiles spawned when shooting this bow. Used by Multishot.
- `minecraft:projectile_spread`: Modifies the maximum spread of projectiles in degrees from the direction they were fired. Used by Multishot.
- `minecraft:trident_return_acceleration`: Causes the trident to return to its owner, and modifies the acceleration applied to this trident while doing so. Used by Loyalty.

Other:
- `minecraft:block_experience`: Modifies the amount of XP from breaking a block. Used by Silk Touch.
- `minecraft:fishing_time_reduction`: Reduces the time it takes for the bobber to sink while fishing with this rod by the given number of seconds. Used by Lure.
- `minecraft:fishing_luck_bonus`: Modifies the amount of [luck] used in the fishing loot table. Used by Luck of the Sea.

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<TargetedConditionalEffect<EnchantmentValueEffect>>>`

- `minecraft:equipment_drops`: Modifies the chance of equipment dropping from an entity killed by this weapon. Used by Looting.

## Location Based Effect Components

_See also: [Location Based Effect Components] on the Minecraft Wiki_

>  Location based effect components are components that contain an `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`. These components define actions to take that need to know where in the level the wielder of the enchantment is. They operate using two major methods: `EnchantmentEntityEffect#onChangedBlock`, which is called when the enchanted item is equipped and when the wielder changes their `BlockPos`, and `onDeactivate`, which is called when the enchanted item is removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Location based effect components are components that implement `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`. These components define actions to take that need to know where in the level the wielder of the enchantment is. They operate using two major methods: `EnchantmentEntityEffect#onChangedBlock`, which is called when the enchanted item is equipped and when the wielder changes their `BlockPos`, and `onDeactivate`, which is called when the enchanted item is removed.
```

Custom `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect` extensions can be registered through `BuiltInRegistries.ENCHANTMENT_LOCATION_BASED_EFFECT_TYPE`. 

Vanilla adds the following location based events:

- `minecraft:all_of`: Runs a list of entity effects in sequence.

> - `minecraft:apply_mob_effect`: Applies a [mob effect] to the affected mob.

Reviewer 2: Missing `minecraft:attribute`

- `minecraft:damage_entity`: Does damage to the affected entity. This stacks with attack damage if in an attacking context.
- `minecraft:damage_item`: Damages this item's durability.
- `minecraft:explode`: Summons an explosion. 
- `minecraft:ignite`: Sets the entity on fire.
- `minecraft:play_sound`: Plays a specified sound.
- `minecraft:replace_block`: Replaces a block at a given offset.
- `minecraft:replace_disk`: Replaces a disk of blocks.
- `minecraft:run_function`: Runs a specified [datapack function].
- `minecraft:set_block_properies`: Modifies the block state properties of the specified block.
- `minecraft:spawn_particles`: Spawns a particle.
- `minecraft:summon_entity`: Summons an entity.

### Vanilla Location Based Effect Component Types

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<ConditionalEffect<EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect>>>`

- `minecraft:location_changed`: Runs a location based effect when the wielder's Block Position changes and when this item is equipped. Used by Frost Walker and Soul Speed.

## Entity Effect Components

_See also [Entity Effect Components] on the Minecraft Wiki._

> Entity effect components are components that contain an `EnchantmentEntityEffect`, an extension of `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`. These override `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect#onChangedBlock` to run `EnchantmentEntityEffect#apply` instead; this `apply` method is also directly invoked somewhere else in the codebase depending on the specific type of the component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Entity effect components are components that implement `EnchantmentEntityEffect`, an subtype of `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`. These override `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect#onChangedBlock` to run `EnchantmentEntityEffect#apply` instead; this `apply` method is also directly invoked somewhere else in the codebase depending on the specific type of the component.
```

> Entity effect components are components that contain an `EnchantmentEntityEffect`, an extension of `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`. These override `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect#onChangedBlock` to run `EnchantmentEntityEffect#apply` instead; this `apply` method is also directly invoked somewhere else in the codebase depending on the specific type of the component.

Reviewer 2: `apply` is  more of a method to say apply directly to the entity itself rather than wait for the block position of the player to change.

      "condition": "minecraft:damage_source_properties",
      "predicate": {
        "is_direct": true
      }
    }
  }
]
```

Here, the entity effect component is `minecraft:post_attack`. Its effect is `minecraft:ignite`, which is implemented by the `Ignite` record. This record's implementation of `EnchantmentEntityEffect#apply` sets the target entity on fire.

### Vanilla Enchantment Entity Effect Component Types

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<ConditionalEffect<EnchantmentEntityEffect>>>`

- `minecraft:hit_block`: Runs an entity effect when an entity (for example, a projectile) hits a block. Used by Channeling.
- `minecraft:tick`: Runs an entity effect each tick. Used by Soul Speed.
- `minecraft:projectile_spawned`: Runs an entity effect after a projectile entity has been spawned from a bow or crossbow. Used by Flame.

#### Defined as `DataComponentType<List<TargetedConditionalEffect<EnchantmentEntityEffect>>>`

- `minecraft:post_attack`: Runs an entity effect after an attack damages an entity. Used by Bane of Arthropods, Channeling, Fire Aspect, Thorns, and Wind Burst.

For more detail on each of these, please look at the [relevant minecraft wiki page].

> ### Attribute Effect Component

Reviewer 2: Attribute is not an `EnchantmentEntityEffect`. It is an `EnchantmentLocationBasedEffect`.

Author: I could have sworn... thanks.
